TELCODOCS#2019: Holdover mechanism implementation in a grandmaster clock (#85104)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ptp-holdover-in-a-grandmaster-clock.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ptp/configuring-ptp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="holdover-in-a-grandmaster-clock_{context}"]
= Holdover in a grandmaster clock with GNSS as the source

> Holdover allows the grandmaster (T-GM) clock to maintain synchronization when the GNSS source is unavailable. During this period, the T-GM clock relies on its internal oscillator and holdover parameters to reduce timing disruptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Holdover allows the grandmaster (T-GM) clock to maintain synchronization performance when the GNSS source is unavailable. During this period, the T-GM clock relies on its internal oscillator and holdover parameters to reduce timing disruptions.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

You can define the holdover behavior by configuring the following holdover parameters in the `PTPConfig` custom resource (CR):

* `LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet`: Maximum allowable phase offset during holdover.
* `LocalHoldoverTimeout`: Maximum time the T-GM clock remains in holdover before transitioning to another state.

> * `MaxInSpecOffset`: Threshold for transitioning from `gm.ClockClass` 6 (`LOCKED`) to `gm.ClockClass` 248 (`FREERUN`). When the phase offset exceeds this threshold, the T-GM clock transitions to the `FREERUN` state. For information on clock class states, see "Grandmaster clock class sync state reference"

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

The T-GM clock uses the holdover parameters `LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet` and `LocalHoldoverTimeout` to caclulate the slope. Slope is the rate at which the phase offset changes over time. It is measured in picoseconds per second. This value indicates how much the offset increases over a given time period. T-GM clock uses the slope value to predict and compensate for the drift, reducing timing disruptions during holdover.

The T-GM clock uses the following formula to calculate the slope:

> * Slope = float(`localMaxHoldoverOffSet`) / float(`localHoldoverTimeout`) * 1000.0

Reviewer 2: simplify  this 
slope= localMaxHoldoverOffSet /localHoldoverTimeout ==ns/s 
 PhaseOffset is reported  in ps/s which we convert to ns 
   but when  calculated phase offset is used we convert it to ns/s

Author: Hi @aneeshkp 
This part is not clear to me "slope= localMaxHoldoverOffSet /localHoldoverTimeout ==ns/s"
Slope is measured in ps/s but not sure what "==ns/s" means in this context.

Reviewer 2: localMaxHoldoverOffset is measured in nanoseconds, and localHoldoverTimeout is measured in seconds.

Although the DPLL phase offset is in picoseconds, we convert it to nanoseconds. Therefore, the calculated phase offset during holdover is expressed as nanoseconds per second, and the resulting slope is in nanoseconds/secs.

All offsets are consistently declared in nanoseconds in metrics and events .   @vitus133    do you agree with this ?

Author: Updated as per the suggestion!
@aneeshkp 

Could you PTAL at the updated content.
Thanks!

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ptp/configuring-ptp.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="holdover-in-a-grandmaster-clock_{context}"]
= Holdover in a grandmaster clock with GNSS as the source

Holdover allows the grandmaster (T-GM) clock to maintain synchronization performance when the GNSS source is unavailable. During this period, the T-GM clock relies on its internal oscillator and holdover parameters to reduce timing disruptions.

You can define the holdover behavior by configuring the following holdover parameters in the `PTPConfig` custom resource (CR):

> `MaxInSpecOffset`:: Specifies the maximum allowed offset in nanoseconds. If the T-GM clock exceeds the `MaxInSpecOffset` value, it transitions to the `FREERUN` state (`gm.ClockClass` 248). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`MaxInSpecOffset`:: Specifies the maximum allowed offset in nanoseconds. If the T-GM clock exceeds the `MaxInSpecOffset` value, it transitions to the `FREERUN` state (where the `gm.ClockClass` parameter is set to `248`). 
```

Author: Updated it as follows:
`FREERUN` state (clock class state `gm.ClockClass 248`)

Because gm.ClockClass is a state and not a parameter I believe.
This observation is based on this info in this section "[Grandmaster clock class sync state reference](https://85104--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/networking/ptp/configuring-ptp#nw-ptp-grandmaster-clock-class-reference_configuring-ptp)"

`LocalHoldoverTimeout`:: Specifies the maximum duration, in seconds, for which the T-GM clock remains in the holdover state before transitioning to the `FREERUN` state.
`LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet`:: Specifies the maximum offset that the T-GM clock can reach during the holdover state in nanoseconds.

If the `MaxInSpecOffset` value is less than the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffset` value, and the T-GM clock exceeds the maximum offset value, the T-GM clock transitions from the holdover state to the `FREERUN` state.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> Currently, even when the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet` value is less than the `MaxInSpecOffset` value, the holdover timeout occurs before the clock reaches the maximum offset. Therefore, it is recomended to set the `MaxInSpecOffset` field and the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffset` field to the same value, as the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffset` has no practical effect in this release. 

Reviewer 3: The "even when" is throwing me off as the preceeding paragraph has the parameters the other way around: `MaxInSpecOffset` value is less than the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffset` value

How about: 

> If the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet` value is less than the `MaxInSpecOffset` value, the holdover timeout occurs before the clock reaches the maximum offset. To resolve this issue, set the `MaxInSpecOffset` field and the `LocalMaxHoldoverOffset` field to the same value. 

"because the value set for `LocalMaxHoldoverOffset` has no practical effect in this release." seems wrong given how setting a lower value does cause an issue. Best to drop the clause, IMO.

====

> For information about clock class states, see "Grandmaster clock class sync state reference"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For information about clock class states, see "Grandmaster clock class sync state reference" document.
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> The T-GM clock uses the holdover parameters `LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet` and `LocalHoldoverTimeout` to caclulate the slope. Slope is the rate at which the phase offset changes over time. It is measured in nanoseconds per second. This value indicates how much the offset increases over a given time period. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The T-GM clock uses the holdover parameters `LocalMaxHoldoverOffSet` and `LocalHoldoverTimeout` to calculate the slope. Slope is the rate at which the phase offset changes over time. Slope is measured in nanoseconds per second, where the set value indicates how much the offset increases over a given time period. 
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.

> The T-GM clock uses the slope value to predict and compensate for the drift, reducing timing disruptions during holdover. It uses the following formula to calculate the slope:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The T-GM clock uses the slope value to predict and compensate for time drift, so reducing timing disruptions during holdover. The clock uses the following formula to calculate the slope:
```

Author: Updated as per the suggestion.
